# Abstract 
The bachelor's thesis on the topic "The Beginnings of 3D Animation for Children in Czech Republic" discusses the period from the turn of the year 2000 to almost the present day. At the beginning, it presents the historical context of the Czech animation industry and the situation that arose after the Velvet Revolution during the privatization of state property. This section is intended to outline the downfall of the Krátký film to the reader. And he also explains how the end of film production in Bratří v triku influenced the further development of Czech animation.
The main part of the thesis deals with the issue of 3D or CGI (Computer-generated imagery) computer animation and its beginnings in the Czech Republic in the field children’s entertainment, especially in short films.

Five films were chosen as the main historical landmarks, which the bachelor's thesis will describe with more depth: Frank, Dinner is Ready! (2001), The Three Little Pigs (2008), Goat Story: The Old Prague Legends (2008), Car Fairy Tales (2011) and The Smallest Elephant in the World (2013).
The main method used for this research was the recording of my personal interviews with the creators of the films. Among them was the producer and founder of animation studio Alkay, Petr Horák. Then the director, artist and screenwriter Michal Žabka. And finally, the director, artist and teacher of 3D animation at FAMU, Libor Pixa. This path was chosen because the topic of Czech 3D animated creation is not well described, but also because to create my own authentic sources. It was my great honor to speak with each of the directors. They gave me valuable information not only about the context of the time, but also explained how they work.
I drew additional sources from the web and freely available interviews, especially in the case of the feature film The Goat Story (2008). The fall of Krátký film was also detailed in the 2018 documentary by Artyčok TV: Krátký film (extended version).
Through my research, I dealt with the very beginnings of 3D animation in the Czech Republic at the turn of the 21st century. I have discovered the specifics in the production of the individual films which were reveled in the recorded interviews with the authors. I aim to understand the context of the time and what made the selected projects special.

In individual chapters, I have uncovered the way in which 3D films were produced years ago and almost up to the present is gradually explained the main points in the process. There is also the topic of development, creative concept, or how the projects affected each of the authors in their professional life or how it influenced the development of the animation studios. 
At the end, the thesis reaches a deeper understanding of the historical context and development of 3D animation in Czech conditions. The bachelor’s work can now name individual recurring patterns that the productions shared or how they differed from each other. The research itself has been a great inspiration for the author in her own personal development and it has informed her in which direction this field will probably in the future. The primary purpose of the bachelor's thesis is to describe a slightly neglected topic and what challenges animated projects can face.

The bachelor's thesis is above all a reflection of continuous development. It is a tribute to all creators, who, despite the more difficult conditions, can create their vision and leave their own mark in the Czech animation industry.



